The President: On behalf
of the Obama family --
Michelle, Malia, Sasha,
Bo, and Sunny --
I want to wish you a
very happy Thanksgiving.
Like many of you, we'll
spend the day with
family and friends,
catching up, eating some
good food and watching
a little football.
Before we lift a fork,
we lend a hand by going
out in the community to
serve some of our
neighbors in need.
And we give thanks
for each other,
and for all of
God's blessings.
Thanksgiving is my
favorite holiday because,
more than any other, it
is uniquely American.
Each of us brings our own
traditions and cultures
and recipes to the table --
but we all share this day,
united by the gratitude for
the bounty of this nation.
And we welcome the
contributions of all people --
no matter their origin or
color or beliefs --
who call America home,
and who enrich the life
of our nation.
It is a creed as old
as our founding:
"E pluribus unum" -- that
our of many, we are one.
We are reminded that
this creed, and America
itself, was never
an inevitability,
but the result of ordinary
people in every generation
doing their part to uphold
our founding ideals --
by taking the
blessings of freedom,
and multiplying them for
those who would follow.
As President Kennedy once
wrote, even as we give
thanks for all that we've
inherited from those
who came before us --
"the decency of purpose,
steadfastness of resolve
and strength of will,
for the courage
and the humility,
which they possessed," we
must also remember that
"the highest appreciation
is not to utter words
but to live by them."
Today, we are grateful to all
Americans who do their part
to live by those ideals,
including our brave men
and women in uniform
overseas and their families,
who sacrifice so much
to keep America safe.
To our service members
who are away from home,
we say an extra prayer for
you and your loved ones,
and we renew our
commitment to take care
of you as well as you've
taken care of us.
We are grateful to the
countless Americans who
serve their communities in
soup kitchens and shelters,
looking out for those
who are less fortunate,
and lifting up those who
have fallen on hard times.
This generosity,
this compassion,
this belief that we are
each other's keepers,
is essential to who we
are, not just on this day,
but every day.
It's easy to focus
on what separates us.
But as we gather with loved
ones on this Thanksgiving,
let's remember and be grateful
for what binds us together.
Our love of country.
Our commitment to
justice and equality.
Our belief that America's
best days are ahead,
and that her destiny
is ours to shape --
and that our
inherited ideals must
be the birthright of
all of our children.
That's what today is all
about: that out of many,
we are one.
Thank you, God bless
you, and from my family
to yours, Happy
Thanksgiving.